docs/content/en/docs/Getting started/setup-development/index.md, before:

---
title: "1. Quick start"
linkTitle: "1. Quick start"
weight: 1
description: >
  This section explains how the system (edge and server) can be setup quickly on a single edge device. This is only recommended for development and testing environments.
---


## Prerequisites

- k3os (AMD64) installed on a bootable USB-stick (you can get it here: https://github.com/rancher/k3os/releases/ ). You can create a bootable USB-stick using [balenaEtcher](https://www.balena.io/etcher/)
- a laptop with SSH / SFTP client (e.g. [MobaXTerm](https://mobaxterm.mobatek.net/)) and [Lens](https://k8slens.dev/) (for accessing the Kubernetes cluster) installed
- a edge device (currently only x86 systems supported)
- keyboard, monitor, cables
- A GitHub account with a public key. If you do not know how to do it [check out this tutorial](https://gist.github.com/dmangiarelli/1a0ae107aaa5c478c51e#ssh-setup-with-putty). You can download puttygen [here](https://the.earth.li/~sgtatham/putty/latest/w64/puttygen.exe)
- network setup and internet access according to the image below

{{< imgproc development-network.png Fit "500x300" >}}{{< /imgproc >}}

## Steps

### k3OS

1. Install k3OS on your edge device using the bootable USB-stick (Press "entf or delete" repeatedly to enter the BIOS of the Factorycube and then boot from the USB stick with K3OS)
2. Choose the desired partition (in most cases 1)
3. Do not use a cloud configuration file
4. When asked, enter your GitHub username. In the future you will access the device via SSH with your private key. After the installation the system will reboot and show after successfull startup the IP adress of the device. If no IP is shown please check your network setup (especially whether you have DHCP activated). If you want to use the classic username / password authentification we recommend reading this article on [how to access SSH for username / password authentification in k3OS](../../Tutorials/add-username-password-authentification-k3os-ssh)
5. Configure K3OS as "server"
6. Remove the USB stick after the message that the system will restart in 5 seconds.
7. You can now disconnect Monitor and keyboard as you will do everything else via SSH.

### General setup

1. Connect via SSH e.g. with MobaXTerm (Username: rancher, Port: 22, remote host: ip of your edge device)
2. Authenticate with your private key which belongs to the to the public key stored in Github. (For MobaXTerm: Advanced SSH Settings -> private key and select your private key)
3. confirm the setting and connect
4. Install helm on your edge device
```bash
export VERIFY_CHECKSUM=false && curl -fsSL -o get_helm.sh https://raw.githubusercontent.com/helm/helm/master/scripts/get-helm-3  && chmod 700 get_helm.sh && ./get_helm.sh
```
If this command fails with a `curl: (60) SSL certificate problem: certificate is not yet valid` (+ you are in a university or otherwise restricted network), [take a look here](../../tutorials/how-to-fix-ntp-issues/).

5. Clone or copy the content of the [united-manufacturing-hub repository on Github](https://github.com/united-manufacturing-hub/united-manufacturing-hub) into the home folder (`/home/rancher/united-manufacturing-hub`). You can use the following command to do that for you (you might need to adjust the version number): `curl -L https://github.com/united-manufacturing-hub/united-manufacturing-hub/tarball/v0.4.2 | tar zx && mv $(find . -maxdepth 1  -type d -name "united-manufacturing-hub*") united-manufacturing-hub`
6. Execute `cat /etc/rancher/k3s/k3s.yaml` to retrieve the secrets to connect to your Kubernetes cluster
7. Paste the file into Lens when adding a new cluster and adjust the IP 127.0.0.1 (only change the IP address. The port, the numbers after the colon, remain the same). You should now see the cluster in Lens.
8. Create two namespaces in your Kubernetes cluster called `factorycube-edge` and `factorycube-server` by executing the following command:
```bash
kubectl create namespace factorycube-edge && kubectl create namespace factorycube-server
```

### Install factorycube-edge

Warning: in production you should use your own certificates and not the ones provided by us as this is highly insecure when exposed to the internet and any insecure network. A tutorial to setup PKI infrastructure for MQTT according to [this guide](../../tutorials/pki)

1. Go into the folder `/home/rancher/united-manufacturing-hub/deployment/factorycube-edge`
2. Create a new file called `development_values.yaml` using `touch development_values.yaml`
3. Copy the following content to that file or use the following example [`development_values.yaml`](/examples/factorycube-server/development_values.yaml). 
4. **(Only if you did not use example file)** Copy the certificates in `deplotment/factorycube-server/developmentCertificates/pki/` and then `ca.crt`, `issued/TESTING.crt` and `issued/private/TESTING.key` into `development_values.yaml`. Additionally use as `mqttBridgeURL` `ssl://factorycube-server-vernemq-local-service.factorycube-server:8883`. 
5. Adjust `iprange` to your network IP range

Example for `development_values.yaml`:
```yaml
mqttBridgeURL: "ssl://mqtt.umh.app:8883"
mqttBridgeTopic: "ia/factoryinsight"
sensorconnect:
  iprange: "172.16.1.0/24"
mqttBridgeCACert: |
  ENTER CERT HERE
mqttBridgeCert: |
  ENTER CERT HERE
mqttBridgePrivkey: |
  ENTER CERT HERE
```

6. Execute `helm install factorycube-edge /home/rancher/united-manufacturing-hub/deployment/factorycube-edge --values "/home/rancher/united-manufacturing-hub/deployment/factorycube-edge/development_values.yaml" --set serialNumber=$(hostname) --kubeconfig /etc/rancher/k3s/k3s.yaml  -n factorycube-edge` (change kubeconfig and serialNumber accordingly) (Please pay attention to the correct path. The path may be /home/rancher/united-manufacturing-hub-main ... or similar)

### Install factorycube-server

Warning: in production this should be installed on a seperate device / in the cloud to ensure High Availability and provide automated backups. 

1. Configure values.yaml according to your needs. For the development version you do not need to do anything. For help in configuring you can take a look into the respective documentation of the subcharts ([Grafana](https://github.com/grafana/helm-charts), [redis](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/tree/master/bitnami/redis), [timescaleDB](https://github.com/timescale/timescaledb-kubernetes/tree/master/charts/timescaledb-single), [verneMQ](https://github.com/vernemq/docker-vernemq/tree/master/helm/vernemq)) or into the documentation of the subcomponents ([factoryinsight](../../developers/factorycube-server/factoryinsight), [mqtt-to-postgresql](../../developers/factorycube-server/mqtt-to-postgresql))
2. Execute `helm install factorycube-server /home/rancher/united-manufacturing-hub/deployment/factorycube-server --values "/home/rancher/united-manufacturing-hub/deployment/factorycube-server/values.yaml" --kubeconfig /etc/rancher/k3s/k3s.yaml -n factorycube-server` and wait. Helm will automatically install the entire stack across multiple node. It can take up to several minutes until everything is setup. (Please pay attention to the correct path. The path may be /home/rancher/united-manufacturing-hub-main ... or similar)

Everything should be now successfully setup and you can connect your edge devices and start creating dashboards! **Keep in mind**: the default development_values.yaml should only be used for development environments and never for production. See also notes below.

## Using it

You can now access Grafana and nodered via HTTP / HTTPS (depending on your setup). Default user for Grafana is admin. You can find the password in the secret RELEASE-NAME-grafana. Grafana is available via port 8080, nodered via 1880.

Commit message:

fix: wget description & grammar error

docs/content/en/docs/Getting started/setup-development/index.md, after:

---
title: "1. Quick start"
linkTitle: "1. Quick start"
weight: 1
description: >
  This section explains how the system (edge and server) can be setup quickly on a single edge device. This is only recommended for development and testing environments.
---


## Prerequisites

- k3os (AMD64) installed on a bootable USB-stick (you can get it here: https://github.com/rancher/k3os/releases/ ). You can create a bootable USB-stick using [balenaEtcher](https://www.balena.io/etcher/)
- a laptop with SSH / SFTP client (e.g. [MobaXTerm](https://mobaxterm.mobatek.net/)) and [Lens](https://k8slens.dev/) (for accessing the Kubernetes cluster) installed
- an edge device (currently only x86 systems supported)
- keyboard, monitor, cables
- A GitHub account with a public key. If you do not know how to do it [check out this tutorial](https://gist.github.com/dmangiarelli/1a0ae107aaa5c478c51e#ssh-setup-with-putty). You can download puttygen [here](https://the.earth.li/~sgtatham/putty/latest/w64/puttygen.exe)
- network setup and internet access according to the image below

{{< imgproc development-network.png Fit "500x300" >}}{{< /imgproc >}}

## Steps

### k3OS

1. Install k3OS on your edge device using the bootable USB-stick (Press "entf or delete" repeatedly to enter the BIOS of the Factorycube and then boot from the USB stick with K3OS)
2. Choose the desired partition (in most cases 1)
3. Do not use a cloud configuration file
4. When asked, enter your GitHub username. In the future you will access the device via SSH with your private key. After the installation the system will reboot and show after successfull startup the IP adress of the device. If no IP is shown please check your network setup (especially whether you have DHCP activated). If you want to use the classic username / password authentification we recommend reading this article on [how to access SSH for username / password authentification in k3OS](../../Tutorials/add-username-password-authentification-k3os-ssh)
5. Configure K3OS as "server"
6. Remove the USB stick after the message that the system will restart in 5 seconds.
7. You can now disconnect Monitor and keyboard as you will do everything else via SSH.

### General setup

1. Connect via SSH e.g. with MobaXTerm (Username: rancher, Port: 22, remote host: ip of your edge device)
2. Authenticate with your private key which belongs to the to the public key stored in Github. (For MobaXTerm: Advanced SSH Settings -> private key and select your private key)
3. confirm the setting and connect
4. Install helm on your edge device
```bash
export VERIFY_CHECKSUM=false && curl -fsSL -o get_helm.sh https://raw.githubusercontent.com/helm/helm/master/scripts/get-helm-3  && chmod 700 get_helm.sh && ./get_helm.sh
```
If this command fails with a `curl: (60) SSL certificate problem: certificate is not yet valid` (+ you are in a university or otherwise restricted network), [take a look here](../../tutorials/how-to-fix-ntp-issues/).

5. Clone or copy the content of the [united-manufacturing-hub repository on Github](https://github.com/united-manufacturing-hub/united-manufacturing-hub) into the home folder (`/home/rancher/united-manufacturing-hub`). You can use the following command to do that for you (you might need to adjust the version number): `curl -L https://github.com/united-manufacturing-hub/united-manufacturing-hub/tarball/v0.4.2 | tar zx && mv $(find . -maxdepth 1  -type d -name "united-manufacturing-hub*") united-manufacturing-hub`
6. Execute `cat /etc/rancher/k3s/k3s.yaml` to retrieve the secrets to connect to your Kubernetes cluster
7. Paste the file into Lens when adding a new cluster and adjust the IP 127.0.0.1 (only change the IP address. The port, the numbers after the colon, remain the same). You should now see the cluster in Lens.
8. Create two namespaces in your Kubernetes cluster called `factorycube-edge` and `factorycube-server` by executing the following command:
```bash
kubectl create namespace factorycube-edge && kubectl create namespace factorycube-server
```

### Install factorycube-edge

Warning: in production you should use your own certificates and not the ones provided by us as this is highly insecure when exposed to the internet and any insecure network. A tutorial to setup PKI infrastructure for MQTT according to [this guide](../../tutorials/pki)

1. Go into the folder `/home/rancher/united-manufacturing-hub/deployment/factorycube-edge`
2. Create a new file called `development_values.yaml` using `touch development_values.yaml`
3. Copy the following content to that file or use the following example [`development_values.yaml`](/examples/factorycube-server/development_values.yaml). 
   - You can download it directly to the deployment folder by using
   
     ``wget -O /home/rancher/united-manufacturing-hub/deployment/factorycube-edge/development_values.yaml https://docs.umh.app/examples/factorycube-server/development_values.yaml`` 
1. **(Only if you did not use example file)** Copy the certificates in `deplotment/factorycube-server/developmentCertificates/pki/` and then `ca.crt`, `issued/TESTING.crt` and `issued/private/TESTING.key` into `development_values.yaml`. Additionally use as `mqttBridgeURL` `ssl://factorycube-server-vernemq-local-service.factorycube-server:8883`. 
2. Adjust `iprange` to your network IP range

Example for `development_values.yaml`:
```yaml
mqttBridgeURL: "ssl://mqtt.umh.app:8883"
mqttBridgeTopic: "ia/factoryinsight"
sensorconnect:
  iprange: "172.16.1.0/24"
mqttBridgeCACert: |
  ENTER CERT HERE
mqttBridgeCert: |
  ENTER CERT HERE
mqttBridgePrivkey: |
  ENTER CERT HERE
```

6. Execute `helm install factorycube-edge /home/rancher/united-manufacturing-hub/deployment/factorycube-edge --values "/home/rancher/united-manufacturing-hub/deployment/factorycube-edge/development_values.yaml" --set serialNumber=$(hostname) --kubeconfig /etc/rancher/k3s/k3s.yaml  -n factorycube-edge` (change kubeconfig and serialNumber accordingly) (Please pay attention to the correct path. The path may be /home/rancher/united-manufacturing-hub-main ... or similar)

### Install factorycube-server

Warning: in production this should be installed on a seperate device / in the cloud to ensure High Availability and provide automated backups. 

1. Configure values.yaml according to your needs. For the development version you do not need to do anything. For help in configuring you can take a look into the respective documentation of the subcharts ([Grafana](https://github.com/grafana/helm-charts), [redis](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/tree/master/bitnami/redis), [timescaleDB](https://github.com/timescale/timescaledb-kubernetes/tree/master/charts/timescaledb-single), [verneMQ](https://github.com/vernemq/docker-vernemq/tree/master/helm/vernemq)) or into the documentation of the subcomponents ([factoryinsight](../../developers/factorycube-server/factoryinsight), [mqtt-to-postgresql](../../developers/factorycube-server/mqtt-to-postgresql))
2. Execute `helm install factorycube-server /home/rancher/united-manufacturing-hub/deployment/factorycube-server --values "/home/rancher/united-manufacturing-hub/deployment/factorycube-server/values.yaml" --kubeconfig /etc/rancher/k3s/k3s.yaml -n factorycube-server` and wait. Helm will automatically install the entire stack across multiple node. It can take up to several minutes until everything is setup. (Please pay attention to the correct path. The path may be /home/rancher/united-manufacturing-hub-main ... or similar)

Everything should be now successfully setup and you can connect your edge devices and start creating dashboards! **Keep in mind**: the default development_values.yaml should only be used for development environments and never for production. See also notes below.

## Using it

You can now access Grafana and nodered via HTTP / HTTPS (depending on your setup). Default user for Grafana is admin. You can find the password in the secret RELEASE-NAME-grafana. Grafana is available via port 8080, nodered via 1880.
